[Professor Panache] Charles is overjoyed. He's captured beautifully in a sculpture, the grace and elegance of Eleanor, his model. The Whisper, that's what he titles it. The gentleman who's commissioned it, John Walter, is delighted when he sees the sculpture. Eleanor, you see, is the raging love of his life. But there's this one minor detail. John Walter is a married man. He has been for 13 years now. His wife's name is Lady Cecil. You see, Eleanor is John Walter's secretary, 13 years his junior, and his mistress of seven years. That explains the title, The Whisper. Eleanor's gesture, a finger pressed to her lips, symbolizes their forbidden love. Now to add another layer to this drama. John Walter is a noted motoring enthusiast and owns several cars and is keen on acknowledging Eleanor's importance in his life.

[Professor Panache] You see, during this age, many a wealthy car owner created meretricious mascots to adorn their radiator caps. Personalization, if you please. That was John Walter's intent, to have a personalized mascot for his cars. But this trend of ostentation is getting on the nerves of car companies. In order to stem this, Claude Johnson, the MD of a car company, decides to commission their very own mascot. He recruits, surprise, surprise, Charles for this task. Though Charles considers other muses, he revisits his opus, The Whisper. Per some suggestions, he replaces Eleanor's face with that of his mother's. He sculpts the form of a graceful goddess who poised low, leans with one leg forward, braced for the breeze. Her robes fluttering, having embraced her silhouette, flowing poetically like wings, a sight set upon the distance. From the year following, and to this day, this goddess would stand majestically at the prow of every Rolls Royce. The world would know her as the Spirit of Ecstasy.
