[Professor Panache] The perfect gentleman. I am often asked whom I hold as the perfect gentleman. Him. Sir Jonas Salk. Is it because he was always well turned out? Possibly. Could it be because he ensured that his boys, all three of his sons, were always equally dapper and polite to a fault? Definitely. Is it because he was an effortlessly elegant communicator? Absolutely. Though he was a man of scientific genius, he was articulate and philosophical. He could narrate the most complex science in the most profoundly poetic manner. Add to this his unwavering humility, and you might think that you have the absolute embodiment of perfection, right? But these, if you'd believe it, were his lighter touches. By the 1940s itself, polio had become amongst the most feared diseases in the world. It would strike without warning. It left children crippled. It left adults paralyzed. Fear and wild and unchecked, much like it did during the pandemic that we, the people of this planet, collectively experienced. Everyone, everywhere was praying for a miracle. Sir Jonas Salk silently went to war, working tirelessly without rest in his lab at the University of Pittsburgh, leading a small team to find a cure. A cure that nearly the entire medical science community at the time believed was impossible. Sir Jonas finally created a vaccine that he was confident would work. But before he released it publicly, he first injected himself, then his wife, and then his three sons. A personal risk to ensure that it worked and had no dire side effects. How's that for gentlemanliness? In 1955, the results arrived. His vaccine worked perfectly. It was powerful, it was safe, it was effective. There was a global celebration. But Sir Jonas wasn't done yet. Everyone understandably expected that he would now patent the vaccine. On being asked when he would be proceeding with the patent formalities, Salk delivered the most legendary response in scientific history.

[Professor Panache] "Could you patent the sun?"

[Professor Panache] With those timeless words, he turned his back on what would amount to $7 billion in personal profit. With those words, he reminded the world what science was meant to be. With those words, he revealed his profound ethics and his incomparable humanity. He believed that what he had discovered belonged to humanity. By not patenting it, he made the polio vaccine available freely, saving millions of humans who would have no other way to repay him but with their prayer and wishes. He didn't leave behind a throne or a personal empire, but he did leave behind children who would walk without crutches and playgrounds that were filled with laughter and cheer. His actions remind us of a virtue all but forgotten in current times. Greatness is not what one takes, but in what one gives. Saluting a legend and a gentleman of the highest order.
