[Professor Panache] Someone called me an influencer last night. I was, to put it mildly, extravagantly offended that my highly treasured personality be belittled in such a juvenile manner. You see, I hold myself to be a man of decorum, of a certain distinction, and as the weather turns, of a decent tweed. And to be banded into this ghastly realm of twits known as online influencers. So why do I despise the form of this prized influencer? For starters, they influence a precious fat nothing. Now let me offer you a field guide on how to spot an influencer in the wild. Their Latin name is ‘Ego Maximus Filteratum Vanitus’. Their mating call is a distinct “like, comment and subscribe!” Their natural habitat, where they’re most often found, is in luxury cars that don’t belong to them, hotel rooms that they haven’t paid for, business class flights that they didn’t book, and scarfing back meals that are on the house. And though they’re not able to read all that well, their favorite coloring picture book is ‘Freeloaders 101’. Though one can’t help but admire their enviable usage of hashtags. So how do they communicate exactly? 23% motivational quotes by people whose names that they can’t quite pronounce, 41% emojis, 17% hashtags, 19% discount codes. Now onto some character traits. They’ll never consume their food without first taking 23 photographs shot from seven different angles. They’ll share a deeply personal moment where they were vulnerable and weak that’s been shot thrice and edited 11 times. They’ll state that they’re taking a social media detox for mental health reasons, and then 21 minutes later, live stream that 36 minute long sound bath meditation. And finally, everything is content. Why be content when you’re surrounded by so much content? Be it your breakfast, be it the resulting bowel movement, it is content. Even if the content looks like crap, that it is.
