[Professor Panache] An air sickness bag, and one of the world's most coveted luxury items. What possible connection could these two have? Let me tell you. In 1984, a British actress and accidental fashion legend named Jane is about to hop on a flight from Paris to London, looking ever chic as always. One of her signature moves, carrying around this quirky Portuguese straw basket, her constant sidekick everywhere, from nightclubs to red carpets, even those dreaded red eye flights. But not this time, no sir. Just two days earlier, after a domestic dispute with her husband had taken quite the odd turn when he decided to turn his car's rear left wheel over her beloved basket. RIP, dear basket. So the ever resourceful Jane simply shoved all her stuff into a smaller bag for this trip. As she boards, the staff, but of course, recognize her, and because it's Jane, bumps her straight up to first class. As she's trying to cram her sad little bag into that overhead bin, it explodes like a piñata, scattering her things everywhere. A kindly gentleman next to her offers help and says, "You really need a bag with pockets, madam." Jane replies, "The day Hermes makes one with pockets, I might consider it." The man smiles. "Madam, I am Hermes, and I will make you one with pockets." Mic drop. Meet Jean-Louis Dumas, the big boss at Hermes. Jane starts rattling off the features of her dream bag, even as Jean-Louis whips out a pen to sketch it. But he can't find any paper, except for that plain old air sickness bag. Voila, mid-flight, mile high, the Hermes Birkin is born. From the back of a 99 cent air sickness bag to adorning the arms of ladies who have paid up to $400,000 for one. From vomit to profit, that's one fancy flight, right?
