[Unknown Speaker A] AVM, what does honor mean to you?
[AVM] That's a great question, Aman. What is honor? It to my mind has several layers. It's that unseen energy that directs you to do the right thing when no one's watching. It's that unheard voice that guides you to do what you must when you have nothing whatsoever to gain. It's the total net sum of your word, the reassurance of your handshake, that you'll do as you say. It's the courage to do right. That is one's honor. For consideration, it could be the Samurai code of Bushido, loyalty, honesty, and if the situation so demands, self-sacrifice. It could be the chivalry code of medieval Europe, to defend those weaker than oneself, loyalty to one's Lord, truthfulness and piety. It could just as easily be drawn from Confucian ethics, the Li and Yi, propriety and righteousness at all times. It holds that how one behaves reflects upon their family and their ancestors. He also held that humility, benevolence and respect for all, particularly the village elders, are integral to honor. Now, for a classical gentleman, as you aspire to be, Aman, honor would be courtesy and manners, integrity and restraint that are the essentials. Now, there's also another facet to it, the flip side of this coin. Honor as bestowed upon one. You can't demand it, you can't buy it, you certainly can't wear it. It's built upon your word, upon your conduct. It stands for the trust you gain through your reputation. This honor is earned through battle and tested through restraint. You have to earn it, you have to live it. That is honor.
