[Unknown Speaker A] Professor, how do I test if someone is a true friend?
[Professor Panache] Rohan, I wouldn't deliberately test a human. Let time tell and test a friend's mettle. On friendship, there's a poem I read decades back. Simple but powerful words. The poet likens the complexity and beauty of friendship with the tender equation of milk and water. When water is poured into milk, the two blend so beautifully together that they become indistinguishable. There's no trace of ego, of resistance, no attempt to outshine the other. They both lose a little of their identity, but yet come together ever so delicately. In time, as with life, heat appears and stirs the stillness, threatening to create an upheaval. Think of this as life's challenges, of struggles. The calm surface of the milk now shows some signs of discomfort. But before the milk can do anything, water that is so beautifully blended into the milk starts on its own to evaporate, quietly disappearing as vapor. A silent but profound sacrifice for its friend, the milk. Witnessing this painful act enrages the milk. It violently froths upwards, threatening to overflow. This is the complexity of friendship. The departure of one leaves the other unsteady. But the moment water is poured into the milk, reuniting them, the milk comes down instantly. Even if friends are separated because of heat and anger, they can reunite with a single sprinkle. Balance is now regained, not because the heat is gone, but because they face it together. In this delicate metaphor lies largely the essence of friendship. It's seamless union, it's generous sacrifice, it's shared vulnerability and its healing grace.
