[Professor Panache] The Berlin Olympics of 1936, an event Hitler intended to use as a giant propaganda device to show the world the apparent superiority of the Aryan race. Amongst the top German athletes was Luz Long, a long jump champion. He was tall, blonde, and had blue eyes, the perfect physical embodiment of the Nazi ideal of the Aryan athlete. This 23-year-old was the pride of Nazi Germany, the squab of Hitler's eyes.

Luz's biggest rival was Jesse Owens, a 22-year-old world record-holding black athlete. But in Berlin, Owens was facing an extremely intimidating environment. Blacks were considered weak, per Hitler's Aryan belief, and he held that they had to be demolished in all forms of competition at the Olympics. Despite the overwhelming conditions, Owens won four medals. But the pressure was now beginning to tell. Owens fouled his opening two attempts at the long jump. He, the world record holder, now had only one shot at qualifying for the event, let alone contending for a medal.

About to start his run-up, he noticed someone dropping a towel a few inches ahead of the foul line. This person gestured to Owen, asking him to use that as his take-off mark to ensure that he wasn't disqualified. Owens couldn't believe his eyes. Who could it be? It was Luz Long, his arch-competitor. Owens took the run-up and followed Long's advice. He qualified, went on to win gold, and also broke the world record again, not once, but twice, leaving Luz in second place with silver.

The first person to race over and hug Owens after his winning jump was Luz Long. They then took a walk around the stadium, arms around each other's shoulders, passing an enraged Hitler. This wasn't merely an act of courage and nobility, of defiance and humanity, of sportsmanship and camaraderie. It was the mark of a true sporting gentleman.
