[Professor Panache] Gucci. What connection could the world's top luxury brand have with an elevator? Let me tell you. The year is 1889. We're in the world's finest hotel, the Savoy, in London. An oasis of sophistication, the Savoy is the world's first hotel to have an electric elevator. This is Guccio Gucci. Born in Florence, he heads to London at the age of 18, where he finds gainful employment as the Savoy's luggage porter, who's also in charge of the hotel's prized elevator. Painted in a rich red lacquer, the "ascending room," as the elevator is referred to, takes over six minutes to go from the first to the fifth floor. Now, this elevator transports some of the world's most glamorous, wealthy, and powerful individuals to their rooms. And while these heavy hitters spend up to six minutes riding up that elevator, they have the undivided attention of their luggage porter, who's sharing the ride with them. Guccio Gucci. Being a natural charmer, this is where a young Guccio connects with several global giants. But even more important than his conversations are Guccio's observations. How the world's most elegant personalities conduct themselves, their carriage, style, demeanor, their ensembles, jewelry, accessories, and most importantly, their luggage. Their leather, grain, color, the stitch quality, the size, functionality, and practicality. Guccio registers everything. Now, it would have been frightfully easy to fret about the lack of opportunity. Guccio is a mere lobby porter, after all. One who could have just as easily complained and stayed boxed into that slow floating vertical box of drudgery. Instead, Guccio makes daily notes based on his interactions, works industriously, and saves up adequate capital over the following two decades. And as he turns 40, opens a store in Florence that offers leather luggage crafted from the finest material, with an unwavering focus on quality that is sold under the name of the House of Gucci.
